Accident is unpredicted and unintended external action but with marked effects. The main purpose of this project is to develop a system which can procure and save the events and data from a vehicle at the time of the accident. This system named Accident Data Acquisition Analysis and Recovery System (ADAARS) will record all events which occurred in a vehicle like a car for the predetermined time range of accident and store the data in the memory which we can recover when required and can be analysed. ADAARS can be installed to the vehicles which have the geometry of cars all over the world. The ADAARS data will give vital information about the accident which may even save a persons life! The ADAARS can give data which will contribute to improving the treatment of crash victims, since those data are real and give great information about accident situation. ADAARS data will help the insurance companies with their vehicle crash investigations to take a rightful decision about the insurance claim, Evidence from ADAARS data can also be used to handle the other legal disputes regarding accidents and plays a key role in giving the deserved person to get the justice.   For accident investigations, we are now depending on eyewitness accounts, CCTV footages and victims description, which may sometimes biased and can not give the exact and complete information. Accident investigators will get unbiased, precise information about the accidents with ADAARS. The perspective of this project is to make the user feel more safety about the car and to help to know the actual cause of accidents if any as this system focuses on monitoring of real-time driving and also stores and uploads monitored data about the accident to cloud if the situation permits.
